feat: articles about new LFT with streamyard (#305)
BedrockStreaming/tech.bedrockstreaming.com: _posts/2022-04-09-how-we-simplify-our-lft-broadcast.md

author: a_caron
lang: en
tags: [lft, talks, live, stream, obs, streamyard, conference]
color: rgb(251,87,66)
thumbnail: images/posts/lft-streamyard/head.png
---
![LFT logo](/images/posts/lft-streamyard/head.png)

Some time ago, we shared with you [an article explaining how we managed to capture and broadcast our conferences in the Bedrock auditorium](/2021/10/14/live-streaming-lft.html). 
We must admit, it worked great, but we wanted to make it simpler.

As a reminder, our internal conferences or meetups are called **LFT**. 
If you want to know more about our _Last Friday Talk_ and the motivations that push us to do it, we invite you to read the above-mentioned article.

After the success of this broadcasting, the (voluntary) organization team started thinking about how to make it simpler. 
_It was already a challenge in itself!_
If you read [this part of the article](/2021/10/14/live-streaming-lft.html#Some%20things%20to%20improve), you can see that we already had some ideas for improvements.

## Improvement areas

> In the previous version, you could see that a very important quantity of material was necessary (meters of various cables, multi plugs, a camera, etc...)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous version, you could see that a very important quantity of material was necessary (meters of various cables, multiple outlets, a camera, etc...)
```

By _hybrid_ mode we also meant that during the same event, we need to host speakers from the location of their choice.

## What we did? 

After a few exchanges with other conference organizations, we decided to give [Streamyard](https://streamyard.com/) a chance.
After some quick tests, we bought a license and started the new version of the LFT.

### What is Streamyard?

Streamyard is a live streaming platform that runs directly in the browser.

It does not have all the customization and possibilities of OBS, but its huge advantage is its portability.
This solution allows Bedrock employees to manage the LFT from any computer.

Here are some sample images and overviews of the Streamyard UI:

![Stream yard screenshot](/images/posts/lft-streamyard/streamyard.png)

![Stream yard screenshot with comment from chat](/images/posts/lft-streamyard/comment-from-chat.png)

The positive points of Streamyard:

- Allows us to have several people in the control room at the same time
- Streams in 1080p
- Personalization: manage banners, chat questions, music on hold,...
- Handles multi-speakers management

> - Multi stream Youtube / Facebook / Twitter / Linkedin / Video recording
> - A free mode allows one to test it before taking out their credit card.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Re-stream to Youtube / Facebook / Twitter / Linkedin / Video recording
- A free trial mode allows one to test it before taking out their credit card.
```

### New setup

As a reminder, here is the organization of our auditorium during the live broadcast of our LFT.
The room is large enough to accommodate all Bedrockers who wish to attend in person the presentations of their colleagues. 
The remote speakers have their conference broadcasted on the two screens of the room.

![Auditorium plan](/images/posts/lft-streamyard/plan.jpg)

![Control desk](/images/posts/lft-streamyard/control-desk.png)

![Auditorium room](/images/posts/lft-streamyard/amphi-bedrock.jpg)

What has changed since we switched to Streamyard is mainly related to the way we capture the image and sound of what is displayed on the screen.
Previously, we were using an Elgato HD60S+ device, to capture the HDMI output from the speaker broadcast. 
However, we had to try several times to get it to work each time we switched speakers. Not fun at all.

Now, with Streamyard, every time we switch speaker, we just need to:
- share the link of the "Streamyard broadcast"
- The speaker joins the stream (and switches off her microphone and webcam)
- Connect the HDMI cable of the speaker's computer
- The speaker displays her screen via the room's projectors

> - The control room puts the RF microphone on the speaker(s)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The control room operator puts the RF microphone on the speaker(s)
```

From the proposal of their subject, through rehearsals and during the broadcast, the team is there to help speakers -- either beginners or confirmed.

The switch to 720p and then to 1080p has been a real positive point for the quality of the live show, but also for the recording and the replay.
More than 200 participants during the last LFT on the day, the organizing team is delighted.

The simplification of the broadcasting setup since the switch to Streamyard has also made it easier to set up the room.
Switching from one speaker to another is less complex and can be done in just a few minutes.

The youtube lives allow participants to pause and rewind the broadcast.
This is really convenient for them.
Also, by going through the youtube chat, we can share questions directly on the screen and on the replay.

The LFT replays are also available on Bedrock's Youtube channel in a private way accessible to all employees.

![Youtube video replay screenshot](/images/posts/lft-streamyard/replay.png)

## Next steps

We don't want to stop there.

> Every two months, we organize a LFT day at Bedrock: our Last Friday Talks.

Reviewer: This feels like a repeat

For the next editions, we will try to do even better.
We are working on the matter of sharing some talks in public on our Youtube channel, so more people in our communities can learn from them.
In order to simplify the setup, we will try to put in place a more fixed table to avoid wiring and moving furniture.

> We also wish to propose and train our employees to the use of this setup in order to allow us to host meetups and conferences in the best conditions.

Reviewer: I think we can tick this box :)

> Now, it's your turn: if your company or user-group does this kind of talks, how do you manage broadcasting and recording?

Reviewer: Where are readers supposed to answer this CTA ?

It does not have all the customization and possibilities of OBS, but its huge advantage is its portability.
This solution allows Bedrock employees to manage the LFT from any computer.

Here are some sample images and overviews of the Streamyard UI:

![Stream yard screenshot](/images/posts/lft-streamyard/streamyard.png)

![Stream yard screenshot with comment from chat](/images/posts/lft-streamyard/comment-from-chat.png)

The positive points of Streamyard:

- Allows us to have several people in the control room at the same time
- Streams in 1080p
- Personalization: manage banners, chat questions, music on hold,...
- Handles multi-speakers management
- Multi stream Youtube / Facebook / Twitter / Linkedin / Video recording
- A free mode allows one to test it before taking out their credit card.

### New setup

As a reminder, here is the organization of our auditorium during the live broadcast of our LFT.
The room is large enough to accommodate all Bedrockers who wish to attend in person the presentations of their colleagues. 
The remote speakers have their conference broadcasted on the two screens of the room.

![Auditorium plan](/images/posts/lft-streamyard/plan.jpg)

> ![Control desk](/images/posts/lft-streamyard/control-desk.jpg)

Author: ```suggestion
![Control desk](/images/posts/lft-streamyard/control-desk.png)
```

> ![Auditorium room](/images/posts/lft-streamyard/amphi-bedrock.png)

Author: ```suggestion
![Auditorium room](/images/posts/lft-streamyard/amphi-bedrock.jpg)
```

From the proposal of the subject, to the rehearsals and until the broadcast, the team is there to accompany the speakers beginners as confirmed.

The switch to 720p and then to 1080p has been a real positive point for the quality of the live show, but also for the recording and the replay.
More than 200 participants during the last LFT on the day, the organizing team is delighted.

The simplification of the broadcasting setup since the switch to Streamyard has also made it easier to set up the room.
Switching from one speaker to another is less complex and can be done in just a few minutes.

The youtube lives allow participants to pause and rewind the broadcast.
This is really convenient for them.
Also, by going through the youtube chat, we can share questions directly on the screen and on the replay.

The LFT replays are also available on Bedrock's Youtube channel in a private way accessible to all employees.

![Youtube video replay screenshot](/images/posts/lft-streamyard/replay.png)

## Next steps

We don't want to stop there.
Every two months, we organize a LFT day at Bedrock: our Last Friday Talks.

For the next editions, we will try to do even better.

> We are working on the subject of replaying our LFT in public on the Youtube channel in order to offer it to everyone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are working on the matter of sharing some talks in public on our Youtube channel, so more people in our communities can learn from them.
```

In order to simplify the setup, we will try to put in place a more fixed table to avoid wiring and moving furniture.
We also wish to propose and train our employees to the use of this setup in order to allow us to host meetups and conferences in the best conditions.

> Your company or association also proposes this kind of conferences, how do you manage broadcasting and recording?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, it's your turn: if your company or user-group does this kind of talks, how do you manage broadcasting and recording?
```
